Add `osu!catch World Cup 2025: Semifinals Recap` news post (#13482)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-07-12-osucatch-world-cup-2025-semifinals-recap.md

## Mappool recap

<style>
    .osu-md--news .audio-player {
        max-width: inherit;
    }
</style>

**[Download the pool here! (140 MB)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs/P291)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2499196622&t=4h6m5s&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-07-12-osucatch-world-cup-2025-semifinals-recap/cwc-2025-sf-mappool.png)

The Semifinals mappool was one of the biggest step-ups in difficulty in the tournament so far. It makes sense given the remaining teams, giving us an introduction to late-tournament pools. It started right away with [R.I.P.](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) (NM1), mapped by [Zyzyx](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2888013) and [Yoshi_green](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1035891), standing at a star rating of 7.95 and featuring intense and stamina-draining patterning for the full three and a half minutes. 

> Surprisingly, three mappers made their CWC debut this round: [Cruwev](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12195994), [Phob](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6069462), and [Zileni](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23525574). Cruwev made a bold entrance with their [Big Daddy (Cut ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395283#fruits/5188079) (NM3) map, serving as the gimmick pick of the round. Cruwev's unconventional mapping style mixed with a high Circle Size and a low Approach Rate made for one of the biggest standouts in the mappool, both in terms of difficulty and hype factor. 

Reviewer: we don't capitalise these

```suggestion
Surprisingly, three mappers made their CWC debut this round: [Cruwev](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12195994), [Phob](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6069462), and [Zileni](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23525574). Cruwev made a bold entrance with their [Big Daddy (Cut ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395283#fruits/5188079) (NM3) map, serving as the gimmick pick of the round. Cruwev's unconventional mapping style mixed with a high circle size and a low approach rate made for one of the biggest standouts in the mappool, both in terms of difficulty and hype factor. 
```

This round also featured the first [ExGon](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/214187) appearances of the year in [Xabon](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) (HD3), as well as [Necrotopia](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395391#fruits/5188321) (TB), the latter being a collaboration with [Spectator](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/702598). A staple mapper in tournaments over the past few years, the osu!catch legend returns once again for CWC 2025, with each map more unique than the last.

---

> Two weeks ago, the first [osu! original](/wiki/osu!_originals) of the tournament was revealed. Last week, that number doubled with two featured in the mappool. And for this week... you guessed it — three originals are here!

Reviewer: didn't double again

```suggestion
Two weeks ago, the first [osu! original](/wiki/osu!_originals) of the tournament was revealed. Last week, that number increased to two, and for this week... you guessed it: three originals are here!
```

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-07-12-osucatch-world-cup-2025-semifinals-recap/SUTEGORO_Banner.png)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/220/Songs/Marmalade_butcher_-_SUTEGORO.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

> We started off strong with [SUTEGORO](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) by [Marmalade butcher](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/220). Mapped by the Polish duo consisting of [Mniam](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6050530) and [Malai](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4863096), this explosive math rock track was done justice with a Hidden pick that caught many players off-guard. Reflecting the calculated chaos of the instrumentals, the map combines repeated antiflows, inconsistent spacings, and 1/16 hyperwalks, resulting in a pick that even the strongest teams struggled to keep up with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We started off strong with [SUTEGORO](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) by [Marmalade butcher](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/220). Mapped by the Polish duo consisting of [Mniam](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6050530) and [Malai](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4863096), this explosive math rock track was done justice with a Hidden pick that caught many players off guard. Reflecting the calculated chaos of the instrumentals, the map combines repeated antiflows, inconsistent spacings, and 1/16 hyperwalks, resulting in a pick that even the strongest teams struggled to keep up with.
```

Also, be sure to check out the beautiful photography by [Amphy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10762223), edited by [hourius](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12580298) used for the background art!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-07-12-osucatch-world-cup-2025-semifinals-recap/SidebySide_Banner.png)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395293#fruits/5188100)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/168/Songs/A-One_-_Side_by_Side.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

It's Touhou Eurobeat time. A fairly uncommon genre in osu!catch, it was a pleasant surprise when [A-One](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/168) was revealed as the artist for one of this week's originals — [Side by Side](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395293#fruits/5188100). The high-octane instrumentals accompanied by the classic A-One vocals combined into an infectious bundle of energy designed to set your fingers — and the floor — on fire. Mapped by [Bunnrei](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/829284) and featured as a Mixed Mod pick, it would end up being a four-minute stamina gauntlet filled with stop-and-go patterns, with barely any breathing room for anyone playing it. 

> [Peargor](https://www.youtube.com/@Peargor/videos) made an appearance to work on the illustration for the song and [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323) worked on the storyboard, so go check out the map to get the full Side by Side experience.

Reviewer: song titles are normally italicised

```suggestion
[Peargor](https://www.youtube.com/@Peargor/videos) made an appearance to work on the illustration for the song and [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323) worked on the storyboard, so go check out the map to get the full *Side by Side* experience.
```

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-07-12-osucatch-world-cup-2025-semifinals-recap/Sonatina_Banner.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395334#fruits/5188192)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh//artists//484//Songs//Ice%20-%20Nostalgia%20Sonatina%20Op.3.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

> If you've been following the past few news posts, you'll know that [Ice](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/484), titan of rhythm game music, is now a Featured Artist. The bombshell was dropped during this round's mappool showcase, revealing [Nostalgia Sonatina Op.3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395334#fruits/5188192) as an original, alongside the Featured Artist announcement. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've been following the past few news posts, you'll know that [Ice](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/484), titan of rhythm game music, [is now a Featured Artist](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2025-06-29-new-featured-artist-ice). The bombshell was dropped during this round's mappool showcase, revealing the new osu! original [Nostalgia Sonatina Op.3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395334#fruits/5188192) in the process.
```

Both rosters were starting to show weaknesses due to the scaling of the mappool this week, but Canada was expected to perform on the gimmicky picks and Hidden, and the Russian Federation on the more mechanical picks. This is exactly what happened in the beginning of the match, with Canada going for [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395319#fruits/5188169), [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395334#fruits/5188192), and [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) and winning all of them, with a standout FC from ::{ flag=CA }:: [CTBWhiteCat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7620002) on MM3 with Hard Rock. The Russian Federation followed suit, picking and winning [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395295#fruits/5188102) and [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395286#fruits/5188085).

> At this point, both teams were just looking to get a breakpoint to get a lead in the match, and Canada would be the first to get one on what looked like a very solid [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395333#fruits/5188189) pick from the Russian roster. Canada knew that they weren't out of picks either — this mappool featured many maps on the more unconventional side which they enjoyed playing around, like they did on [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395283#fruits/5188079) next to secure the breakpoint. The Russian Federation won their [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) gamble, and even managed to win on Hidden against Canada on [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) to get back to an even scoreline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, both teams were just looking to get a break point to get a lead in the match, and Canada would be the first to get one on what looked like a very solid [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395333#fruits/5188189) pick from the Russian roster. Team Canada knew that they weren't out of picks either — this mappool featured many maps on the more unconventional side which they enjoyed playing around, like they did on [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395283#fruits/5188079) next to secure the break point. The Russian Federation won their [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) gamble, and even managed to win on Hidden against Canada on [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) to get back to an even scoreline.
```

> At this point, both teams were just looking to get a breakpoint to get a lead in the match, and Canada would be the first to get one on what looked like a very solid [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395333#fruits/5188189) pick from the Russian roster. Canada knew that they weren't out of picks— this mappool featured many maps on the more unconventional side which they enjoyed playing around, like they did on [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395283#fruits/5188079) next to secure the breakpoint. The Russian Federation won their [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) gamble, and even managed to win on Hidden against Canada on [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) to get back to an even scoreline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, both teams were just looking to get a breakpoint to get a lead in the match, and Canada would be the first to get one on what looked like a very solid [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395333#fruits/5188189) pick from the Russian roster. Canada knew that they weren't out of picks either — this mappool featured many maps on the more unconventional side which they enjoyed playing around, like they did on [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395283#fruits/5188079) next to secure the breakpoint. The Russian Federation won their [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) gamble, and even managed to win on Hidden against Canada on [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) to get back to an even scoreline.
```

> But in the end, they would fail to win on their own [DT2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395291#fruits/5188098) pick by only about 18k points, letting Canada close out the match 5—7 on [DT4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395304#fruits/5188115). Was it the picking strategy that failed the Russian Federation, a couple too many misses, or just Canada playing great? It looked like a combination of all, but this loss meant that they were now out of the tournament, with the twelfth seed eliminating the third. Unfortunately for Canada, they would also end up being eliminated this round, losing to Chile 7—1. These last few rounds are unforgiving, and with them comes no shortage of broken hopes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But in the end, they would fail to win on their own [DT3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395291#fruits/5188098) pick by only about 18k points, letting Canada close out the match 7–5 on [DT4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395304#fruits/5188115). Was it the picking strategy that failed the Russian Federation, a couple too many misses, or just Canada playing great? It looked like a combination of all, but this loss meant that they were now out of the tournament, with the twelfth seed eliminating the third. Unfortunately for Canada, they would also end up being eliminated this round, losing to Chile 7–1. These last few rounds are unforgiving, and with them comes no shortage of broken hopes.
```

### ::{ flag=PL }:: Poland vs. ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile

**[You can view the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/118602409)**\
**[You can view the match VOD here!](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2505159687?t=1h4m52s)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?autoplay=false&parent=osu.ppy.sh&time=1h4m52s&video=2505159687" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> Poland (#10) and Chile (#9) last faced off in the Losers' bracket Finals of [CWC 2024](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/CWC/2024), a memorable showdown that ended with Poland winning on the tiebreaker. This year, they would go against each other one round earlier in the same bracket, but with slightly different rosters. Both teams suffered from major player losses going into this edition, and wanted to prove that they were still able to compete with their current lineups. All in all, an exciting showdown between two evenly-matched teams was ahead of us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Poland (#10) and Chile (#9) last faced off in the losers' bracket Finals of [CWC 2024](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/CWC/2024), a memorable showdown that ended with Poland winning on the tiebreaker. This year, they would go against each other one round earlier in the same bracket, but with slightly different rosters. Both teams suffered from major player losses going into this edition, and wanted to prove that they were still able to compete with their current lineups. All in all, an exciting showdown between two evenly-matched teams was ahead of us.
```

> Poland (#10) and Chile (#9) faced off for the last time last year, in a very memorable losers' bracket Finals match that ended in Poland winning on the tiebreaker. This year, they would go against each other one round earlier in the same bracket, but with slightly different rosters. Both teams suffered from major player losses going into this edition, and wanted to prove that they were still able to compete with their current lineups. All in all, an exciting showdown between two evenly-matched teams was ahead of us.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if I have to link CWC 2024 wikis page or not, seeking for any follow up
```suggestion
Poland (#10) and Chile (#9) last faced off in the Losers' bracket Finals of [CWC 2024](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/CWC/2024), a memorable showdown that ended with Poland winning on the tiebreaker. This year, they would go against each other one round earlier in the same bracket, but with slightly different rosters. Both teams suffered from major player losses going into this edition, and wanted to prove that they were still able to compete with their current lineups. All in all, an exciting showdown between two evenly-matched teams was ahead of us.
```

> After successful first picks on each side, on [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395295#fruits/5188102) for Poland and [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) for Chile, the second picks would end up being breakpoints for the opposing team. [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) didn't favour Poland as they had hoped, and the very expected [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) pick coming from Chile would backfire against them despite Poland's supposed Hidden weakness this year. But after that, Poland would once again lose on their own pick, this time on [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395286#fruits/5188085), which wasn't the case for Chile who won [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395319#fruits/5188169). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful first picks on each side, on [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395295#fruits/5188102) for Poland and [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) for Chile, the second picks would end up being break points for the opposing team. [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) didn't favour Poland as they had hoped, and the very expected [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) pick coming from Chile would backfire against them despite Poland's supposed Hidden weakness this year. But after that, Poland would once again lose on their own pick, this time on [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395286#fruits/5188085), which wasn't the case for Chile who won [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395319#fruits/5188169). 
```

> After successful first picks on each side, on [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395295#fruits/5188102) for Poland and [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) for Chile, the second ones would end up being breakpoints for the opposing team. [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) didn't favour Poland as they had hoped, and the very expected [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) pick coming from Chile would backfire against them despite the supposed Hidden weakness for Poland this year. But after that Poland would once again lose on their own pick, this time on [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395286#fruits/5188085), which wasn't the case for Chile who won [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395319#fruits/5188169). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After successful first picks on each side, on [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395295#fruits/5188102) for Poland and [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395265#fruits/5187955) for Chile, the second picks would end up being breakpoints for the opposing team. [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395421#fruits/5188524) didn't favour Poland as they had hoped, and the very expected [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395292#fruits/5188099) pick coming from Chile would backfire against them despite Poland's supposed Hidden weakness this year. But after that, Poland would once again lose on their own pick, this time on [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395286#fruits/5188085), which wasn't the case for Chile who won [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395319#fruits/5188169). 
```

Poland had lost their edge in the match after two opportunities to keep the scoreline, and it was up to them to make up for it. However, as the match went on, no comeback would be seen from Poland. After barely winning on [DT2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395290#fruits/5188096), they would keep succeeding in their pick strategy by also taking [HR3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395287#fruits/5188086) and [MM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395293#fruits/5188100). But just managing to win your own picks wouldn't be enough in this situation, as Chile would do the exact same on [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395334#fruits/5188192), [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395333#fruits/5188189), and finally [DT3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2395291#fruits/5188098) when the timer ran out for Poland.

> Each pick ended up being a nailbiter— would this be the map that Poland comes back on to bring themselves to a tiebreaker? Unfortunately, that moment they were now eliminated of the tournament by Chile, losing 5—7. Chile had now taken their revenge, and thanks to this win and their next one against Canada, they qualified for the Finals round, matching their performance from last year despite losing key players and playing in a more stacked CWC. Can they manage to push even further? Tune in to next week's matches to see!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each pick ended up being a nailbiter — would this be the map that Poland comes back on to bring themselves to a tiebreaker? Unfortunately, that moment they were now eliminated of the tournament by Chile, losing 5–7. Chile had now taken their revenge, and thanks to this win and their next one against Canada, they qualified for the Finals round, matching their performance from last year despite losing key players and playing in a more stacked CWC. Can they manage to push even further? Tune in to next week's matches to see!
```
